# Project Name

Weight-based Toll Collection & Management using Blockchain, IoT, and ML

## Description

Toll collection plays a crucial role in maintaining and developing road infrastructure by providing a sustainable source of funding for safe and efficient transportation. However, the current toll collection system in India has several issues, including unfair toll charges for lighter vehicles and data storage vulnerabilities. The proposed Weight-based Toll Collection System (W-TCS) addresses these issues by using load cells to measure the weight of vehicles and determine the appropriate toll fee based on their weight category. The W-TCS system leverages the Internet of Things (IoT) and blockchain technology to enhance transparency and trust in the toll collection process by storing transactional data in a decentralized manner, reducing the risks associated with centralized databases. The use of blockchain technology eliminates the possibility of fraudulent activities and promotes fairness among toll payers. Additionally, the W-TCS system enables automated and secure toll payments through RFID technology and the proposed TollCoin currency. The implementation of the W-TCS system in India can significantly improve the overall toll collection process's security and efficiency while promoting automation and enhancing trust and transparency. Along with that in this project a machine learning algorithm has been deployed and used to predict the number of vehicles that will arrive at the toll station every hour. This prediction is made using a machine learning model. The dataset used contains the count of vehicles incoming at every hour over a 2 year period. The algorithm then uses the dataset and the seasonality trends to identify the number of vehicles that might arrive every hour. This technology can help the workers at the toll booth to operate an optimal number of gates such that minimum energy is consumed.